Figure 1. Evolution of knowledge. A. Disease-disease knowledge network on infectious, inflammatory and psychiatric disorders from 1990 to 2018. Nodes represent diseases and are proportional to the number of genes associated with each disease in each year. Edge weights are proportional to the significance of gene sharing between each pair of diseases. Only edges with a -log10pval > 2 are depicted. B. Cumulative number of genes associated with each disease category and with all diseases from 1990 to 2018.  C. Distribution of the number of genes associated with each disease and category in 2018. D. Number of new genes added to the network in each category per year. E. Number of new genes added to the network in selected diseases each year. Color code: green - infectious diseases, orange - inflammatory diseases, blue - psychiatric disorders.

Figure S1. Evolution of knowledge - supplementary results. A-B. Evolution of the mean disease-disease similarity between diseases of different category (A) or within diseases of the same categories (B). C. Comparison of the total number of papers retrieved from PubMed on diseases of all categories that were connected to less than 100 genes in the 2018 network with the number of papers on diseases connected to more than 100 genes in 2018. P-value obtained from the t-test of the mean comparison between the two distributions.

Figure 2. Evolution of disease relationships between categories. A. Disease-diseases similarity between diseases of different categories in the 2018 network according to their shared genes. The similarity score was defined as the -log10pval of the Fisher’s exact test result of the gene overlap between each disease pair. Each heatmap represents the similarity score between diseases of two distinct categories: red - psychiatric versus inflammatory diseases, green - psychiatric versus infectious diseases and purple - inflammatory versus infectious diseases. B. Number of disease pairs according to the similarity-to-paper ratio index. This index was obtained as the ratio between the similarity score and the total number of papers published for each disease pair in 2018. Low similarity-to-paper ratio (< 10) is colored in blue, intermediate similarity-to-paper ratio (10 < ratio < 40) is colored in yellow and high similarity-to-paper ratio (> 40) is colored in pink. C. Selected cases of disease pairs with low, intermediate or high similarity-to-paper ratios depicting the evolution in the number of papers on each pair and the evolution of the similarity between them.

Figure S2. Disease-disease similarity evolution between different categories from 1990 to 2018. A-F. Evolution of the similarity between diseases of different categories: psychiatric and inflammatory (A), psychiatric and infectious (B), inflammatory and psychiatric (C), inflammatory and infectious (D), infectious and psychiatric and infectious and inflammatory (E). Similarity scores represents the -log10pvalue of the Fisher’s exact test result of the gene overlap between each disease pair in each year from 1990 to 2018.

Figure 3. Evolution of knowledge on biological pathways. A. Reactome term-term network built from the ORA results of the genes of the top 9 inflammatory, infectious and psychiatric diseases in 2018. Terms were connected to each other according to the significance of the gene sharing between them (edge weight). We detected 11 clusters (node colors) of closely related terms and compared the enrichment score distribution of the terms in these clusters in each disease category (boxplots). B. Enrichment score distribution of the terms in selected clusters and diseases. The networks in the top panel have the same topology of the network in A. The nodes are colored according to the enrichment score of the terms represented by each node. C. Evolution of the mean enrichment score for selected pathway clusters from the network in A for the top 9 diseases in each category.

Figure S3. ORA network analysis of genes associated with inflammatory, infectious and psychiatric diseases. Enrichment score distribution of the terms in the clusters from Fig. 3A for diseases not depicted in Fig. 03B. Box plots illustrate the distribution of the enrichment scores of the Reactome pathways in each cluster.

Figure 04. Evolution of drug target hub genes. A. Upset plot showing the common genes between all categories (hub genes), between two categories exclusively and genes that are unique to each category. B. Number of therapeutic drugs of inflammatory, infectious and psychiatric diseases that target the top 20 target hub genes according to the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD). C. Timeline of the association of the top 20 target hub genes to the gene-disease network. The year in which each gene was associated with the first disease of each category is depicted by the circles with distinct colors for each category. D. Number of hub genes targeted by the top 20 drugs that target more hubs according to CTD. E. Drug-gene network depitcing the top 20 drugs and top 20 drug target hub genes. We selected a few drugs and illustrated their molecular structure and which diseases they are listed as therapeutic for according to CTD.

Table S1. List of diseases in each category.
Table S2. Cummulative number of genes associated to each disease in each year.
Table S3. Number of new genes added in the network per disease in each year.
Table S4. Similarity-to-paper score for all pairs of distinct categories.
Table S5. Overrepresentation analysis (ORA) results of the genes connected to the top 9 diseases in the 2018 network. Includes cluster of each term.


